ERROR_MAP = {

    # Classic system ABENDs associated with COBOL logic
    

    "S0C1": (
        "S0C1 is an operation exception. The CPU attempted to execute an "
        "invalid or non-existent instruction. In COBOL this commonly happens "
        "when a program branches to an incorrect address (such as an uninitialized "
        "procedure pointer) or when the load module or called subprogram is "
        "corrupt or mismatched. To resolve it, verify that all CALLed programs "
        "are present and correctly link-edited, ensure that any procedure or "
        "function pointers are initialized before use, and re-link if the load "
        "module may be damaged."
    ),
    "S0C4": (
        "S0C4 is an addressing error. The program attempted to access storage "
        "it does not own or a misaligned address. In COBOL this is often caused "
        "by invalid subscripts or indexes, using reference modification with "
        "out-of-range offsets, or corrupting pointers through incorrect CALL "
        "arguments. To resolve it, use the dump to identify the failing "
        "instruction and data item, check array bounds and reference "
        "modifications, turn on bounds-checking or SSRANGE where possible, "
        "and correct any logic that drives indexes or pointers outside the "
        "allocated storage."
    ),
    "S0C7": (
        "S0C7 is a data exception caused by invalid numeric data in a field that "
        "is used in arithmetic or otherwise treated as numeric. Typical causes "
        "include spaces or non-numeric characters in a packed-decimal (COMP-3) "
        "or zoned-decimal field, or bad group moves overlaying numeric items. "
        "To resolve it, locate the failing instruction and the offending field "
        "in the dump, validate the input data and any group-level MOVEs, ensure "
        "that numeric fields are properly initialized, and add data validation or "
        "edit checks before performing arithmetic."
    ),
    "S0C9": (
        "S0C9 is a divide exception. The program attempted an invalid divide "
        "operation, such as dividing by zero or producing a quotient too large "
        "for the target field. To resolve it, review all DIVIDE statements near "
        "the failing instruction, ensure that divisors are checked for zero or "
        "invalid values, widen result fields if necessary, and add range checks "
        "before performing the division."
    ),
    "S0CB": (
        "S0CB is a decimal overflow exception. A decimal arithmetic operation "
        "produced a result that could not fit into the target packed or zoned "
        "decimal field. To resolve it, examine the arithmetic statement at the "
        "failing instruction, increase the size or precision of the target field, "
        "or add validation and scaling logic so that intermediate and final "
        "results remain within the defined PICTURE ranges."
    ),
    "U4038": (
        "U4038 is a user ABEND frequently issued by Language Environment (LE) "
        "when a COBOL run-time condition is not handled. Typical causes include "
        "unhandled file status errors, invalid arguments on intrinsic functions, "
        "or severe run-time conditions where LE terminates the program. To "
        "resolve it, check the LE message text in the job log (CEE3xxx messages) "
        "for the underlying condition, correct the COBOL logic or data that "
        "caused the error, and optionally enable condition-handling or more "
        "detailed LE diagnostics."
    ),

    #
    # JCL / dataset / allocation related ABENDs
    #
    "S213": (
        "S213 indicates an I/O or dataset access problem. Common causes include "
        "a missing dataset, incorrect data set name, catalog problems, or "
        "insufficient security authorization for the requested dataset. It can "
        "also occur when the dataset is on an unavailable or offline volume. "
        "To resolve it, verify the DD statement's DSN, DISP, and volume "
        "information, ensure that the dataset exists and is cataloged, check "
        "RACF or other security settings for access permissions, and correct "
        "any typos or mismatches between the JCL and the actual dataset."
    ),
    "S013-18": (
        "S013-18 is a dataset open error related to record format or length. "
        "It usually occurs when the program's FD/LRECL/RECFM does not match "
        "the actual dataset attributes, or when the JCL DCB parameters are "
        "inconsistent with the COBOL file description. To resolve it, compare "
        "the dataset's LRECL, BLKSIZE, and RECFM (from LISTCAT or ISPF 3.4) to "
        "the COBOL FD and any DCB parameters in the DD statement, then make "
        "them consistent and rerun the job."
    ),
    "SB37": (
        "SB37 is a space allocation error indicating that a sequential dataset "
        "ran out of primary and secondary extents on the current volume. "
        "This often happens when the output grows larger than anticipated and "
        "no more space can be extended. To resolve it, increase the primary and "
        "secondary SPACE allocation in the DD statement, choose a unit or volume "
        "with more availability, or optimize the program to write less data."
    ),
    "SD37": (
        "SD37 is a space error indicating that a dataset exhausted its primary "
        "space and no secondary space was defined. The system cannot extend the "
        "dataset further. To resolve it, add a nonzero secondary quantity to the "
        "SPACE parameter, increase the primary allocation, or reduce the amount "
        "of data written by the program so that it fits within the allocated "
        "space."
    ),
    "SE37": (
        "SE37 is a space error indicating that a dataset has reached the maximum "
        "number of extents or volumes available. For example, a PDS might reach "
        "its 16-extent limit or a multi-volume sequential dataset may have used "
        "all allocated volumes. To resolve it, increase the SPACE allocation on "
        "fewer but larger volumes, redesign the dataset to require fewer extents "
        "(e.g., use a larger primary and smaller secondary), or split the output "
        "across multiple datasets."
    ),
    "S322": (
        "S322 indicates that the job or step exceeded its CPU or time limit and "
        "was cancelled by the system. This commonly occurs with loops or very "
        "long-running jobs where TIME parameters are too restrictive. To "
        "resolve it, check for infinite or excessive loops in the COBOL program, "
        "optimize expensive processing, and if the logic is correct, increase "
        "the TIME or REGION limits in the JCL as appropriate per site standards."
    ),
    "S522": (
        "S522 indicates that a job was cancelled because it was waiting too long "
        "for an event such as operator intervention or resource availability. "
        "In many shops this arises from jobs waiting at a console prompt or for "
        "a tape, mount, or other resource that never arrives. To resolve it, "
        "verify that the job does not require manual replies, ensure necessary "
        "resources (such as tapes or devices) are available, and consider "
        "removing any code that depends on console I/O in batch."
    ),
    "S806": (
        "S806 indicates that the program could not be found in the STEPLIB, "
        "JOBLIB, or system linklist libraries. The module named in the JCL EXEC "
        "PARM or PROC PGM parameter is not available to be loaded. To resolve it, "
        "verify the program name, confirm that the load module is link-edited "
        "into a library in the appropriate STEPLIB or JOBLIB concatenation, "
        "ensure that the library is cataloged and accessible, and correct any "
        "spelling or concatenation errors in the JCL."
    ),


    # File / I-O behavior frequently seen in COBOL jobs

    "IEC161I": (
        "IEC161I is a message typically associated with end-of-file and file "
        "status issues on QSAM datasets (often paired with ABEND codes). It can "
        "appear when a dataset is not opened correctly or when an unexpected "
        "end-of-file or I/O condition is reached. To resolve it, check the "
        "COBOL file status field after OPEN and READ/WRITE operations, make "
        "sure the DD statement correctly defines the dataset, and ensure that "
        "the program's record format and length match the dataset attributes."
    ),
    "IEC130I": (
        "IEC130I is a dataset attribute error, often indicating an invalid or "
        "inconsistent DCB parameter (such as an illegal BLKSIZE or RECFM). "
        "It can be associated with S013 abends. To resolve it, correct the DCB "
        "parameters on the DD statement, ensure that BLKSIZE is valid for the "
        "device and LRECL, and align the JCL definitions with the actual "
        "dataset and the COBOL FD."
    ),
}